# ECG-based-Biometric-Identification

## Project Overview


## Background

The database is available at Physionet [1](https://physionet.org/content/ecgiddb/1.0.0/), and it was created and contributed by Lugovaya T. [2]

Obtained from 90 subjects, the database contains 310 ECG recordings including: 

ECG lead I, recorded for 20 seconds, digitized at 500 Hz with 12-bit resolution over a nominal ±10 mV range;
information (in the .hea file for the record) containing age, gender and recording date.

The records were obtained from volunteers (44 men and 46 women aged from 13 to 75 years). The number of records for each person varies from 2 (collected during one day) to 20 (collected periodically over 6 months).


Lugovaya [2] raised the potential use of the electrocardiogram (ECG) as a biometric human identification method. 

The ECG, being a record of electrical currents generated by the beating heart, is potentially a distinctive human characteristic, since ECG waveforms and other properties of the ECG depend on the anatomic features of the human heart and body. Experimental studies involved 90 volunteers. Heart rate, physical and emotional state were not limited. For usability, Lead I was chosen, since it is easily measured and it is not sensitive to minor variations in electrode locations. ECG fragments containing QRS complexes, P and T waves extracted from the ECG were processed by Principal Component Analysis and classified using Linear Discriminant Analysis and a Majority Vote Classifier. Using this method on a predetermined group of 90 individuals, the experimental results showed that the rate of correct identification was 96%. The findings support using the ECG as a new biometric characteristic in various biometric access control applications.


## Project Highlight

## The Project at a glance

Part 1: Data preparation

Part 2: EDA

Part 3: ECG classification algorithm


### References
[1] Goldberger, A., Amaral, L., Glass, L., Hausdorff, J., Ivanov, P. C., Mark, R., ... & Stanley, H. E. (2000). PhysioBank, PhysioToolkit, and PhysioNet: Components of a new research resource for complex physiologic signals. Circulation [Online]. 101 (23), pp. e215–e220.

[2] Lugovaya T.S. Biometric human identification based on electrocardiogram. [Master's thesis] Faculty of Computing Technologies and Informatics, Electrotechnical University "LETI", Saint-Petersburg, Russian Federation; June 2005.
